the MSU campus has grown through the
decades the buildings tangible examples
of the passage of time the connective
tissue of centuries the chicken state is
unusual in that from its earliest years
it began to talk about the campus as a
park and valued the actual geography and
the plants as part of their agricultural
heritage so the campus has always been
seen as a public resource as she's
student today for study it might be
easier to think of campus this whole
campus as your house with a really big
yard all the bricks and mortar every
detail has to be cared for every day of
the year and through the generations so
if you are going to add on to your home
what would you add how would you do it
MSU is a little like that it reflects
what was is and hopefully will be going
on in society the campus is a reflection
of it's a reflection of a society but
also as president Hanna said it was
meant to be a demonstration model so as
as population changes as we've become
more urban the challenge is not to
preserve this as a bucolic Museum but to
make it be a working living environment
a living educational environment if you
go along circle Drive there are places
where they're grouping of four or five
buildings that would transport you back
to anywhere between 1890 and 1910 if you
wanted to experience that and yet you
can walk on other parts of campus and
feel as though you were in the 1960s and
other parts that really lead you into
the future and that's the big challenge
so in making the decision to add to the
stadium for example which was a radical
decision the idea was also to add to a
big building and make it
multi-dimensional and its usefulness and
that it actually works as a fairly
unique poor school our size to have the
stadium still actually beyond the campus
which makes it much more part of the
whole environment and then we built
biomedical physical sciences which is
now becoming
more less not less new-looking but more
a part of the campus as the trees grow
and as art is placed around and because
we have a commitment to that for all new
buildings and then in the future the the
art museum the art museum is coming the
lonely space that's just sort of hanging
out on the edge of campus is going to be
anything but lonely when the broad art
museum casts its edgy shadow when it
cracks open its doors and reveals the
treasures inside which can but hope to
rival the audacious design of their home
we have to remember that the buildings
are memorable that people travel around
the world to see the Duomo the Cathedral
in Florence is memorable because it is
of it the texture of its outside stone
in green green and white of green and
beige this is going to be remarkable
because of its use of glass and metal
and other materials it will be by design
iconic it will be transformational I
don't know if you heard it but that's
the term that our president is used and
that was the challenge was to find a
firm that was willing to create a
building that you could think of as our
largest sculpture on campus as the home
for the university's art collection as a
place that bridges between the community
and the campus as a place for children
students
anyone of any age to come and learn
about the arts the visual arts one look
one single glance and you know it stands
out we want to design this challenging
and it will be definitely different from
its neighbors but its neighbors will
understand they'll get used to the new
family next door just as they have
through the years and that's again
something you feel on this campus that
you don't feel elsewhere that there's a
commitment to making the campus work
there are some cities in the u.s. have
feel or in the world to feel that way
and there others have feel disjointed
and here there's a sense that the people
who are doing the work that are mowing
the lawns or doing whatever else things
to be done are all contributing to
making this this organism thrive the
buildings the landscape all of it comes
together and has to come together to
make Michigan State University a real
community not just a bunch of buildings
it's the interplay of the buildings and
the grand the green space that makes our
campus wonderful and the fact that you
can find places that people are
interested in habitus itting in walking
through but don't even have names and
yet they're places that people go to the
place behind the administration building
where the Ducks are is not named but
everyone knows if you say I'll meet you
at the Ducks that that's where you need
to go and and that's what people learn
when they're on the campus is that it's
it's neat there are people are not
throwing trash and yet it's not
antiseptic it's a living breathing
organism
and hopefully that's a role model but
people will keep with them when they
move back to they leave school and they
move into building and being a part of
other communities through the years
bricks and mortar become buildings
buildings become icons and icons become
transformational but at the heart of it
is Michigan State and because all of
this is Michigan State these bricks and
mortar this glass and steel all of it
all of it feels like home and always
will